Pi Camera calibration:
This step involves setting up the Raspberry Pi with the Pi Camera module attached and enabling the camera module. Then, a chessboard pattern is printed and mounted in various orientations and distances from the camera. Several images of the chessboard are taken using the Pi Camera module, and saved in a folder named "chess_board". The "picam_calibration.py" script is then run to detect the corners of the chessboard in each image, compute the camera matrix and distortion coefficients, and print these parameters to the terminal. The camera matrix and distortion coefficients are then copied and used in the "rc_driver.py" script to calibrate the Pi Camera module.
Collecting training data:
In this step, the Raspberry Pi is connected to an RC car and the "collect_training_data.py" script is run to collect training data from the RC car. The "stream_client.py" script is then run to stream the video feed from the RC car to the Raspberry Pi. The arrow keys on the keyboard are used to drive the RC car, and the frames are only saved when there is a key press action. Once the program is exited, the data is saved into a newly created "training_data" folder in the same directory.
Neural network training:
The "model_training.py" script is run to train a neural network model using the collected training data. After training, the model is saved into a newly created folder named "saved_model".
Self-driving in action:
The "rc_driver.py" script is run to start the server on the computer, and the "rc_driver_nn_only.py" script is run for simplified no object detection version. Then, both "stream_client.py" and "ultrasonic_client.py" are run on the Raspberry Pi simultaneously. The car will start driving in self-driving mode, and can be stopped by pressing "q" on the computer and exiting.
